Hello gang, how are y'all doing?
Tasting, tasting, one, two, three from MacArthur Park where it's still melting in the dark
Parliament Town is now in session
Spencer Crittenden, would you please join us on stage, the Game Master extraordinaire
So let's bring out the Mayor of Parliament Town, Dan Harvett
Hip to the hop, never stop, saw your mama on a raft on a lake
Saw your mama for goodness sake, saw your mama going up and down
Saw your mama dancing in a sprinkler shape like a clown
She got wet, I laid down a hundred dollar bet that she couldn't swim in the water coming out
Fuck it so hard, in the mouth, okay gross, gross
Okay stop, we go until we get gross, that's the new rule, I like that
Did you win the bet?
Yes
Oh okay
Also, who was the other person on the other end of that hundred dollar bet?
I have all the same questions you do
I only have one item in my notepad
Oh yeah
But we've got a great guest who's very provocative and wonderful to talk to
So you don't want me to have more in my notepad
But I already texted Jeff about this today, look
Okay we have so many questions I have about this
But you know I texted you his whole monologue so don't
So you know to let me get to the all the way to the end and then we can all discuss
I want you to lay it down as you found it
So I will admit and I don't do this all the time
It was just kind of a weird impulse I had, like life's going good
And I left my new home and I knew the work I had to do
I knew how long I had to do it and I was kind of like
I was like I'm gonna stop at this bar
And it's 1130am and I'm gonna have one before work
And I'm not usually that guy, I don't judge those guys
Your name is Cliff Clavin
And I wouldn't be embarrassed if I was that guy
But I was like I'm gonna give this a try and also I'm in a new neighborhood
So I wanted to see what is the new neighborhoods bar like at 1130am
Well I'm not going back because it's fucking packed
It's like a Friday night for them because it's a different
The drawing room I'm really learning is something incredibly special
So I'll probably be making the trek to continue to drink there when I'm in that day drinking mood
Because this was like a TGI Fridays
But there was this guy, well I had my one drink
I just eavesdropped and I heard a monologue from a guy
That made me finish my drink very quickly
Settle up in cash and fast walk to my car
So I could finish transcribing it without him knowing I was writing down everything
And you sent me and Dino a group text
And we had a conversation about it which I'm glad for
Because you would be cutting me off every five words if I just read this
You'd be like wait a minute
But this is what I texted my two friends
Dan has two friends
I just ran out to the car and I didn't stand a chance of not getting this all verbatim
Now I am going to do this in his authentic patois
He was a six foot five-ish African-American man
So I'm going to, you know, it wasn't like, look
If we've learned nothing else this week
We've learned to ask what's racist
But I just want to be authentic because it's more the working class nature of his ranch
You're doing a authentic
I'm not going to pretend he's from Jersey
But I'm not going to be like the crows in Dumbo
I'm not doing a thing
I don't think it's funny that he talks the way he does
I just want you to understand
This is a working class monologue from a very specific archetype
What age are we talking?
I would put him at 55, 60
55, 6 foot 4 black gentleman
And he is at the bar next to you
He was holding court for sure
And I could tell you some politically incriminating shit that he said before this
But I don't want to put him in one category or another
I just found this monologue so fucking fascinating in a vacuum
I think just start with the narrative and then we can go back to that if we need to
Okay, so I'm going to try to do this very tastefully
But I'm also going to try to do it authentically
Which is how every tasteful story starts
I'm going to try to be tasteful
Okay
Lou Diamond Phillips, okay
Lou Diamond Phillips
He parked 3 feet from the curb
You know what I'm saying?
36 inches
So I'm writing the ticket
And he comes out, what are you doing? Why are you giving me a ticket?
I said, sir, the law is your car needs to be a minimum of 18 inches from the curb
He says, oh that's bullshit, that's bullshit
You know, so I said, okay, I'll make you a deal
You can take the ticket
Or I can call a tow truck
And you know it's going to be much more expensive
And then his wife comes out and she was much more subtle
More kind
So I eventually said, okay, I'm not going to call the tow truck
Because I like Lou Diamond Phillips
You know what I'm saying? I like his movies
But he came out like an asshole
And all I'm saying is, so what makes his job more exalted than mine?
He can do his job, but I can't do mine
Why is that? And I ran from the bar
After waiting, I was going to wait
I was like, I'm like thumb nailing notes
But he quieted, he simmered down
Because the people he was holding court with, they were all like, I don't know
I don't know, Todd, you're fun to listen to
But I don't know what you want us to say
Is he the hero of that story?
Or for him, he certainly is
I think he's the absolute villain
Just think about the conversation you and I had
I absolutely 100% side with Lou Diamond Phillips in this story
I would first answer this man's question
Not that I would have wanted any beef with him
But the answer to his rhetorical question is
The reason Lou Diamond Phillips can do his job and you can't do yours is
Because his job is to make people happy and yours is to make people sad
And that's no fault of yours, but not accepting that is weird
Why does Lou Diamond Phillips get to be celebrated?
He's a celebrity
Was there no contrition on Lou Diamond Phillips' part about parking
A foot farther away from the curb than he's supposed to
This is the only narrative you're going to get
Here's the quotes from Lou Diamond Phillips
He said it's bullshit
And he heard the reason, he's like, it's bullshit
That's what we got and we know his wife was very supple and smooth
And she got him out of the tow truck
But it sounds like Lou Diamond Phillips
Like any person that parks three feet from the curb
Which I do want to be a law
Because that is 36 inches and that is extreme
It sounds like he had to pay the same ticket
That a garbage man or a parking enforcement officer off duty would have to pay
It doesn't sound like he'd actually cut away with anything
It in fact kind of sounds, from my perspective, assuming this was 20 years ago
Or this guy is the biggest Lou Diamond Phillips fan in the world
That the only difference between Lou Diamond Phillips and a parking enforcement officer
Or a normal person getting a parking ticket is that because he's famous
This guy has been telling this story for 20 years
Whereas otherwise it wouldn't have been a big deal
I hope it was like yesterday or within the last week
It has to be recent
Then that guy's got to be...
And here's my one other thought about answering his rhetorical question
The other reason he can do his job and you can't do yours
Is because God gave you and Lou Diamond Phillips
Both one chance at coping with Lou Diamond Phillips' fame
And you're blowing it
And Lou Diamond Phillips has made a lot of movies that I know you haven't seen
You didn't see bats in the theater, I did
I know Lou Diamond Phillips is good
Have you guys seen bats?
Everybody right now, in your mind, name four Lou Diamond Phillips films
And you only get one Young Guns
I actually forgot Young Guns
And I was like for sure LaBamba, he must be thinking about LaBamba
But you had a very good point, like Young Guns
Your theory on it was he went into law enforcement because of Young Guns
Yeah, because Lou Diamond Phillips is his...
The reason why he started to go into law enforcement
Is because Lou Diamond Phillips
Who is the kind of representative of stoic morality
And then he meets Lou Diamond Phillips
Who's parked too far away from the curve
He's like I wanted to be the Young Gun of parking enforcement or the LAPD
No, he wanted to be in the FBI
He wanted to be another thing
You don't go into parking enforcement because that was your end game
That was your thing
I just wonder how many people weren't assholes that come across him doing his job
His job is to really reign on people's parade
And that's not his fault
What if Lou Diamond Bamba was just on a bad day?
I call him Lou Diamond Bamba because there was an MTV interview
On MTV a long time ago, what's the worst soundtrack you ever heard?
And he goes, what's the worst moment in movie history?
And they asked a guy in New York who was from Brooklyn
He goes, it's when that Lou Diamond Bamba comes out and he goes, you know what?
You're alright
But he called him Lou Diamond Bamba
That was one of the thoughts I had as I got into the car
I was like, wait a minute, you never changed your middle name to parking enforcement, I bet
That's a safe bet
Obviously at some point Lou Diamond Phillips or his parents decided he was destined for success
The story of the thing that you ever heard
There was a guy at a bar talking about being a parking enforcement official
And Lou Diamond Bamba was being an asshole
Was Lou Diamond Bamba on a bad day?
Well, yeah, I don't know
That's a question for him, yeah, for sure
I mean, who knows?
When do you park three feet from a curb?
Is it because you think that's within your right to do so?
Or is it because he was with his wife?
Maybe she was...
We don't know, they could have been outside a hospital
I'm not trying to...
But then you said the guy was...
Victim blame
Then you said the victim being a guy who didn't enjoy writing a ticket
But the guy was at the bar, then he was watching TV and he called women bitches for...
Yeah, I mean, that's what I'm saying
I already knew the guy was like...
It's a thing that's like...
I interpreted everything he was saying as like a projection of...
You know, this is the thing
It's like people thinking...
This is why I tend to side with the celebrities
I tend to side with the publicly shamed
I tend to side with the visible
Because I think that people tend to project onto luminaries
This like privilege that may be partially true
I mean, I'm not being like a fucking pure apologist and going...
Oh boy, the actors go to their job and they just work so hard
It's harder than coal mining
I'm not implying that
I will say it's a very hard fucking job
I should know, I have fucking worked actors very hard
I've driven them to the brink
And then I've said, with a Kubrickian flair
Great, now put film in the camera
Because I needed that
From Danny Pootie in that moment
And you loved it, and that's why you're here
I know somebody that ran into Keanu Reeves on a bad day
Keanu Reeves was being like, surly
And he's like, fuck Keanu Reeves, he was a fucking asshole
You ask anybody else? Keanu Reeves, super cool
But you can't get one pass if you're a famous person
Because if you have a bad moment with somebody, then that's your thing
I just kind of bristle at that culture of like, go...
It's that Dire Straits video refrigerator guy
Like, look at that faggot, he's got his own airplane
He must be doing something right
And it's like, because in that monologue, the guy says
And I like...
What do you mean you like Lou Timewood Phillips?
Why don't you hate him now?
Is it because you think that...
Obviously, you believe that he won the lottery
He didn't earn anything, otherwise you wouldn't be asking the question
Why is his job so much more exalted?
You're implying that he's the recipient of pure, undeserved privilege
At the same time as you're saying like, and I like him
That's the thing, which is a very familiar thing to me
It rings this bell in me where I'm like, ugh
You know, every interaction you have with somebody who's just a little bit off in there
Like, oh, your girlfriend's tits or whatever
And you go like, hey, why don't you go fuck yourself?
And they're like, I'm kidding, I'm kidding
You write Rick and Morty, why don't you fucking learn?
You're rich, aren't you swimming in a pool full of money?
Why don't you fucking learn to take a joke?
And it's like, there's something off here with this relationship
And it's coming from a projection on the part of someone who's asking themselves
What would I do if I were Keanu Reeves?
And if their answer is dark enough, Keanu Reeves is guilty of those crimes
And I think that's like a very fundamentally wrong
Can you conjure up a memory of when you think that you might have misbehaved
And that's going to color somebody's memory of...
Oh, I'm sure it's all the time
As much as I love it when people interact with me
What can I ever do?
I'm not a good person, I'm not a pleasant person to be around
I'm also not an actor, so I never consider it my job to be like publicly fucking digestible
No, but you are
You're not as efficient for that, but thank you
No, I'm just saying, if somebody were to know who I was
And if somebody were to know who I was and on top of that by whatever coincidence
Their fault or not their fault, I'm not getting a perfect fucking...
I didn't get a drink for an hour or whatever
I don't know, like they might end up with a story about something I said that was kind of like dickish
Spencer, when we did the Harmon Tour documentary thing
We watched you go through your first on camera
I'm a person that people want to meet
And you were kind of mistrustful or...
Going through the scrutiny of strangers liking you for either some reason or no reason or whatever
Yeah
That's right, Jeff
We'll be right back
I remember there's this story where we were doing the up fronts
Remember when we did the CISO thing at New York or whatever, it was that terrible terrible
We played with the love makers or whatever
We did a test of Harmon Quest or something, it was a fucking nightmare
Afterwards, there was someone who was backstage that was a fan or something
That was like, hey, great show, that was literally the worst experience, the worst show I've ever done
And I just remember giving that guy the cold shoulder and I just carried that with me
I'm like, you can't treat people like that, you can't talk to fans
I wasn't like, go fuck yourself or whatever
But I think that if someone had that interaction, they would be all like, oh, that was kind of a bummer
And so anytime I interact with fans, I think of that
And it's like, well, I never want to do that again
And you know what? I found out pretty recently that that fan wasn't a fan at all
It was Tom Sharpling
And so I feel really, really shitty about it now
Wait, who's that?
I thought you'd feel better
No, because like that's like, I don't know, that's like if you were like, oh, and it turned out I like mouthed off to, you know, Keanu Reeves or something
Oh, because you were right
And when you say not a fan, you don't mean dislikes
No, but I just thought it was some random fan
But then someone else that you would admire and whose opinion would matter a lot to you
Right, or just like, it's like if one person just had one bad interaction with me
And they just, you know, they told that story, that's one thing
But if it's like, oh, there's this guy who could potentially, you know, talk about me in circles or something like that
I learned a long time ago like, you walk off stage and you have, you thought you had a shitty show
Oh, I did
And then somebody comes up to you and goes, I would love that show
You really shouldn't say, no, that show sucked, you're wrong
You just say thank you
And because if they had a good time, like the, but what if they're lying?
If they walk up and say that, then they're a liar
But if they're saying that and they mean it, like you just walk away and say thank you
But I also think you, yeah, you never deflect a compliment
Like, which means just like, you're wrong, what you just said is wrong
You have bad taste in experiences and people
But you don't, you don't have to do the opposite of that
Which is like, for me, oh my god, thank you
You could, I've come to go, I was told to stop doing that
And I went from doing that to just going like, thank you so much, that's really nice of you to say
I thought I did horribly, so that's great, you're helping me by feeling that way
And then they'll go, no, I thought it was great, I was like, well, jeez, maybe it was great
Thank you for saying that, you're helping me out
Some of the worst shows I've ever done got the most praise
And I don't know why people said that, but
Oh, because they're idiots, they don't know
Right, they get off their tractors and they're like yippie-de-doop-a-doo
Oh, I'm gonna go see a famous person
Oh boy, but they're nailing it, I wouldn't know, I got a marble for a brain
Just kidding, I'm kidding
That's what that guy thinks Lou Diamond Phillips thinks when he gets in his car
He thinks that's why Lou Diamond Phillips parked that far from the curb
He's like, who's gonna give me a ticket, some marble brain?
I was in Young Guns, that's not what Lou Diamond Phillips was thinking
And you said to me in the text, because you were inflamed about this, you said
I wasn't inflamed, I was having fun taking Lou Diamond's Phillips side
You were excited, and you said, ask that guy to name two other movies beside LaBamba
That Lou Diamond Phillips, he wouldn't be able to do it
He might've got two
But I actually forgot Young Guns, which is interesting
Because I was actually thinking of Lou Diamond Phillips as kind of like LaBamba
And then made the most of like, been in a dozen movies that are just hard to recall
Like 1997's Bats, which is fucking amazing, and he's great in it
That's peeked Phillips
See Bats, it's a horror movie
If you were to dare that guy to name two more movies beside LaBamba
He could've gone Young Guns and Young Guns 2, and you would've been out a hundred bucks
Alright, our next guest
What if it was Lou Diamond Phillips?
If we were a proper podcast, this whole thing would've been a tee-up to bring out
Lou Diamond Bamba and the whole crowd would've gone fucking berserk
If I deserved my podcast pulpit, I would also have the parking enforcement guy out
And I would do some real fucking work, like the guy that does heavyweight for gimlet media
There's people out there doing real work, I don't know why I continue to advertise space
I think we have the juice to get Lou Diamond Phillips on the show
Well, don't insult him
No, I...
Or you won't get him on
I'm insulting our audience
Alright, so our guest tonight has been a guest before
I believe he was a guest last time on the days
It better be Lou Diamond fucking Phillips
There really wasn't an audience, but I gotta say
If I had to name three man crush occupations
There was the guy I met who was an Irish firefighter
Who I'm like, jeez, they fight that too?
It's a little racist, but I used to think I was Irish before I sent my spin into a fucking computer
I'm pretty sure that's the definition of racism
Still, though, for all I knew I was Irish
You don't think other cultures fight fires?
I just... look, when I engage in the stereotype of the Irish being fighty
I mean, it's the same as them being poets and singers
I'm like, oh, I got hearts in my eyes
I want to be Irish so bad
And then to be a firefighter, an Irish firefighter
I'm just saying
In your mind, you think Irish... it's the little leprechaun guy
Actually, you're like fist fighting a fire
No, I think it's a fucking badass dude that's like
Oh, well, you think you love me, but you don't
Get up off the floor now
I'm going to sing a song with me fists
They're beautiful people, they're super natural
Their cereal has magical...
No, stop it
See, that shit's offensive, but anyways
Can we please, our guest is waiting in the wings
This is the... I don't know what the third man crush occupation would be
But as far as two-word occupations, this is right there
Who knows if it's number one or number two?
After Irish firefighter
Or before, I'm not sure
Please welcome Conflict Journalist
Fucking come on
Put your dicks down
And lift your pants back up for Rob Evans
Rob Evans?
What up, Rob?
Well, Dan answered my question as to whether or not
I was going to try a really offensive Irish accent
As soon as I got out on stage, so I don't have to now
Thank you for that
Have you been to Ireland and you're Conflict Journaling?
No, not for Conflict
Fires? No
See, I don't think so
Are you ethnically descended from the Irish people?
Not at all, but I can sing every word of come out you black and tans
Do you really want to sing with him?
He does, but don't take that as anything
What's the song?
Come out you black and tans
It's an old IRA song about beating up British paramilitaries
In the streets of Dublin
Give us the fresh refrain of that
Come out you black and tans
Come out and fight me like a man
Show your wife how you won medals out in Flanders
Tell her how the IRA made you run like hell away
From the green and lovely lakes of Kiloshan Drill
Wow
So the first couple rhymes you're thinking
Oh shit, this is racist
And then you're like, oh no, he likes the black and tans
No, what? No
No, is it?
He wants to fight him
No, I thought he admired them and wanted them to fight with him
He wants to beat the shit out of them
He wants to beat up the black and tans
It's a drunken Irish militant being like
Oh, you won medals in World War I, you fucking pawns
Come out and fight me, I'll beat you up
Oh
Yeah, that's what the song is about
But is the black and tans his veterans?
It's referencing a uniform, not a skin
It is a uniform, not a skin color
No, no, no, no, no, not a skin color
Everyone was very white
Right
So it's fine
That's when you grow up in a country like Ireland
You have to, it's like
The pigmentation of your clothes has got me in a fucking xenophobic rage
They did kind of invent that, right?
It's like, is that an orange band around your arm?
Yeah
All right, sorry if you're Irish, do not attack
These people can beat up fire
I do not want to cross them
But you go everywhere where I would never want to cross
You just got back from Syria by way of Mexico or?
No, no, I was just there for a wedding
You went to, oh, Mexico was a wedding
Yeah, yeah, that was just for fun
Syria was for work
Yeah, we went in by Iraq
And you gave me a little thumbnail of what you were doing out there
Which I thought was really interesting
The precursor being that you're kind of a, you're freelance
Right, because you don't, like you said, the big news organizations
They don't send you to the Middle East
Unless you're going to do a story that fits in a, you're doing ISIS stories
Yeah, yeah, it's hard to get a big paper to pay for you to go out to Syria
Because it's very expensive
They usually want you to travel with security
Which kind of bollocks is everything up
I imagine they have to insure the hell out of you
Yeah, like it can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars pretty easily
For like even just a single reporter in there for a couple of weeks
So you're freelancing and you're selling your stories to different media outlets?
I don't have to do that anymore
So I got, I do a couple of podcasts for iHeartRadio
Behind the Bastards is like the big one
And so like that's my regular job
I got the one fan whistling somewhere
And these are the stuff, stuff, stuff
How stuff gets made, stuff they don't like to know
Yeah, they got acquired by a series of companies
And that's the way things work, I guess
Are you a print or a photo or both?
I do print and I do podcasts, like online and stuff
So like, I just raised a bunch of money from my fans
I just asked people, like I said, I'll write this audio book
About how right wing terrorism works in the United States
And this sort of plot started in the 1980s
To create like a network of stochastic, randomly organized terrorists
To carry out attacks to stabilize the country
How this all like came together
And I'll write that and I'll put it out for you
If you guys raise a bunch of money from me
So that I can go to Syria and check it out
Crowd sourced journalism by gum
What brand of gum?
It's both an amazing thing and also a sad testament
To the state of journalism
Quit dodging the question
What are you gonna do?
What brand of gum?
It'd better fucking be Big League 2
You're damn right, Big League 2
So was this a crowd sourced affair?
Like what you were, the story you were doing out there
So tell us about this, this is like
Okay, so this is like, there's a complicated story
And it's hard to tell like how far back to go
When trying to explain this
Like the short, if I'm like pitching this on an elevator is
There's like a quasi anarchist feminist revolution
In northern Syria
And they're sort of the folks who did most of the fighting
To beat ISIS
And so we were hanging out with these people
And like talking with them about how their system works
And like watching this sort of thing develop
And that's like the short pitch
When you say anarchist, you mean like proper old school
Like political anarchism
Like not anarchic
Where people think that word doesn't mean anything
This is where we get into the longer explanation of it
And the longer explanation is that there is this
Turkish Kurdish terrorist named Abdullah Ajalan
Who is like an absolute terrorist
Killed a shitload of innocent people back in the day
And then in the late 90s, he gets arrested by the United States
In I think Kenya
And there was another country involved too
Anyway, he's been in an island prison in Turkey this whole time
Like for the last 20 years or so
And in the last 20 years, he's sort of like moderated
And he's just done a bunch of reading
And he came upon an American anarchist philosopher
Named Murray Bookchin
And he started writing stuff where he's like
Oh shit, I was wrong
Number one, I was wrong to be a Marxist-Leninist
Number two, the kind of terrorism I was advocating isn't okay
And if we're going to actually reform society
In a way that fixes things like I wanted to fix them
Rather than just trying to overthrow the government
And institute our own
We need to actually overthrow the systems of oppression
That are at the basis of all authoritarianism
Which is the domination of women by men
And so we need to fundamentally reorganize society
In order to fix the gender imbalance if we're going to fix anything
And due to a series of like weird flukes of history
The terrorist group that this guy is the figurehead of
Wound up being the most powerful force in northern Syria
When ISIS was on the march
And they formed a couple of little subsidiary groups
That then took on a life of their own
And got US air support and backing
And they beat ISIS
And now they're in control of a region of about 4 million people
And so for the last couple of years
That there's been like
Okay, well we have all of this political theory
This guy's been writing
And now we're in charge
We should see if it works
And it kind of seems like it does
But are they being like proper anarchists
Like Paris Commune
And like Mikhail Bakunin
And Kropotkin and Emma Goldman and all that
I would call them anarchist inspired in certain areas
Another way I've heard it
I just a journalist today was telling me
He thinks it's his opinion of Rojava
Which is what the region is called
Is the world's most effective direct democracy
Governed by an authoritarian system
So you've got the military
Which is central in a lot of aspects
Because they need to defend this region
Both from the Assad regime
Which are assholes
And from the Turkish government
Which are also not very nice
Particularly since it's a Kurdish-led liberation struggle
So they're in charge of a significant amount
Of what goes on there
But not on the civil side
Are they anarchists in the proper sense
Where it's really like a true democratic
Like anti-rule
Where everybody decides their own fate
And stuff like that
Somewhat, there's a lot of that in there
So it's bottom-up political organization
And so they have communes on the lower level of thing
Where different neighborhoods
Every neighborhood will have sort of a direct democracy
Where they vote for representatives of the neighborhood
Which represent them at the city level
Which represents the city at the Canton level
Which is roughly analogous to a state
And it builds up from there
One of the rules they have is that
When they elect representatives
They'd never just elect one representative
So you don't just have a president
In charge of food production
You have two presidents
And they're always a man and a woman
And the idea is that
You should never have just a man
Or just a woman in charge of anything
It should be both simultaneously
And they have to come to an accord personally
About what they're going to do
Before anything could be done
And this is law throughout...
Yeah, Rojava
Wow
About four million people living under this right now
Yeah
Historically, what's going to happen is that
Both other sides are going to come back in
And they will absolutely squash them
Because they don't...
Yeah
The threat of actual democracy breaks out
They get murdered
They get absolutely hammered
And it's...
You can see that in the offing all around it
So most of where we were
Was within a mile or two of the Turkish border
Like I had cell reception through Turkish cell networks
The whole time I was there
And you can see the military forces there
The YPG and the YPJ are building hundreds of miles of tunnels
Underneath everything
There are Turkish forces to invade
And there's this gigantic border wall
That the Turks have built
That's like 20 feet tall
And topped with concertina wire
And guard towers behind it
And every day we were there
The president of Turkey would send out another threat
Saying, like, I'm going to wipe these people out
Like, if we don't get this exclusion zone we want
If the US doesn't pull back
I'm just going to invade
And, like, we'll see what happens
And he's been throwing threats out like that
Out for a while
And the Assad regime is still in control
Of most of Syria at this point
And, like, to the extent that there's one city
Where they share joint control of
And we were, like, three feet away from the Assad regime
And there's, like, statues of Bashar al-Assad
And his troops glowering at you on one side
And then there's, like, the YPG on the other side
And it's very tense in some places
But then you'd travel, like, five miles back
And you'd be, like, sitting at this, like, local council meeting
Where it's just, like, a bunch of old women
In their 60s and 70s
Talking about how they're handling, like
They don't have cops to deal with stuff like
Domestic disturbances and, like, that sort of thing
Like civil law enforcement
Is all done by an elected commune
Of, like, people in the town
Who just, like, go door-to-door
And there's, like, a fight or something
And you want to counsel it out
And that's your anarchy, functionally
Yeah
Because it's because people need not be governed
Necessarily
They can figure shit out
They're kind of designed for it
There's usually better at it
Yeah
Um, I got a bookmark
That it's amazing to me
How some thoughts are
Have so much power because this guy who was a
Warlord, autocratic, terrorist-minded guy
Spent time in prison and then had that realization
Is, like, reaching me
Who's, like, a renowned woke Westerner
Um, like, where I'm going, like,
Holy shit, yeah, that's a really good fundamental point
That misogyny is the atomic unit of autocracy
Like, that's what he's saying
Is, like, you can't go into an honest conversation
About whether or not mankind need be governed
Um, when you're walking into that
When you're governing half of the species
Yeah
When you were socialized to, like, get innervated
By any discussion that you think is not political
About whether or not Becky should be acting
The way she's acting
One of the really interesting things out there
Because we talk to hundreds and hundreds of people
Um, and we spent time at a military training base
For the YPJ, which is the All Women's Militia
So all of society in Rojava
All women's militia
In Syria
I've got some pictures, yeah
That's awesome
Yeah, so all of society, there's two chunks
There's general society, which is male and female
And should be as close to a 50-50 mix as possible
That's the goal
And then there's usually a women's auxiliary area
Because they understand that, like, this is fucking Syria
Like, shit's been really rough for women here
For a long time
And we need all women's groups
So that these, like, members
Like, women who've been members of tribes
Where, like, there hasn't been any representation
Of women for a very long time
Can kind of learn the ropes of speaking for themselves
Without having to be, like, making decisions
In the same room as some, like, older man
Who's just going to kind of walk all over them
So you have an all-female auxiliary army?
Yeah, you want to see pictures?
Yes
Okay, let's see, I got it on the back here
I mean, like, we have to have conversations
Outside of writers' rooms
About how being conscious of, like,
Women being socialized to bear interruption
More than men are socialized to not interrupt
And, like, I can't even begin to...
That's in a rich first-world empire
I had a weird experience sitting on the floor
Drinking coffee with these young women
Talking about how they have to avoid fake male feminists
And how, like, yeah, there's guys in here
That will say all the right things when you interview them
He's sitting right next to you up
He's sitting right next to you
We call it virtue signaling
Like, they didn't use that word
But they were like, a lot of these guys
They talk the talk, but, like, you know
That they don't really believe
And if things were to change society
Societally, they would go back to the way things were
And my fixer, who's this wonderful woman,
One of the most incredible people I've ever met
When you say fixer, you mean what?
Fixer is the person who leads you around
They usually interpret, they translate, they get you access
Do you speak the local dialect?
I speak a little bit of Serani
Enough to, like, get by
Which is the Iraqi Kurdish dialect
Which is the Syrian Kurdish dialect is garbage
And I barely know pleasantries
You have a handler that's taking you around
Yeah, you usually do it in a war zone
And as much as, like, you need someone to, like, drive for you
Which was, in our case, this dude Alon
Who has nothing to do with anarchism or feminism
But the love this man had for cigarettes
Was pure and beautiful
Like, I've never seen a man enjoy terrible cigarettes
As much as Alon
He would just smile at us with, like, this
He usually worked with women
Because our fixer usually would only work with female journalists
These women are, like, Capri 100s
No, they just won't smoke
Because they're, like, from New York or whatever
And, like, they don't like it
Oh, okay
And he was working with, like, two men
And neither of us are regular smokers
But we were willing to humor him
So we wound up smoking, like, three packs a day
Just to make Alon happy
Because the joy on his face was so pure
But they were crap cigarettes?
Oh, they're garbage
The world sends its worst cigarettes to Syria
Yeah
And we put it in English on the pack
There's no warnings on the packs
Like, that's how bad the cigarettes are
They don't even bother to tell
It says it won't give you cancer
It will make you fly
Yeah
So, I...
Sorry, Dan
You're on the ground, Rob
And you're gathering stories
You're going through a handler that's interpreting for you
Mm-hmm
And what is your relationship with, like, locals?
Like, when they see you, do they see you as a friend?
A threat?
Or just kind of a noncombatant?
Like, it's easy going?
Well, this is, you know, one of the things about the Middle East
Is that, like, or at least the parts of it I've been to
Because I don't have a comprehensive knowledge
But I spent a lot of time in Iraq
And I've now been to Syria
And I've spent a bit of time in Turkey
And in the UAE
People, one to one, no matter what you're doing
Are incredibly friendly on, like, a general basis
And, like, some of them will, like, happily tell you
Like, oh, yeah, the Marines killed my family
Or, like, a U.S. bomb killed my dad or whatever
But, like, you want to go have tea?
Or, like, oh, if you need a place to stay for that
I'll put you up for the night
It's just like it's a cultural thing
They take you as a one-on-one, like, just regular guy
It's just sort of politeness and welcoming a guest
Is, like, a deeper thing than religion in that part of the world
And so I've almost never gotten a cold reception
Are there women that do what you do that would get the same reception?
Or is it easier to be a male journalist doing that?
It depends a little bit on the situation
There are certain times where it's easier to be a woman
Just because people will be friendlier to you
It's much harder in other ways and in some ways more dangerous
But, like, if you're working with the military, for example
You can get a lot of pictures of stuff you shouldn't be able to get pictures with
If you're a woman and you'll just pose with the guys
For a shot on their cell phones
And then, like, you can take pictures of the military base
You can take pictures of the tanks, like, they'll let you do whatever
It's just sort of like how much you're willing to kind of lean on that
Because I think you're taking selfies
You can just disguise
I went with my wife to Iraq three times
And when we got back from the second trip
She'd met all these Iraqi soldiers
And, like, they'd all exchanged Facebook information
We'd gotten some, like, great access
And, like, had a really good time
And then we, like, were in Istanbul in the hotel
And she pulls open Facebook
And she starts getting, or whatever, Facebook, like, video message
From, like, 30 to, like, half of the Iraqi 5th Federal Police Battalion
You're, like, being, like, hey, you want to talk?
They don't speak any English, though
Are you, like, do you ever get any watchlist bullshit from, like, customs and stuff like that?
I never have any issue
Okay
Well, how do you file that emotionally?
Or slash sociopolitically as a nomadic journalist
Like, who probably doesn't have as many, like, prejudices
But, okay, that's your wife
And then the Facebook messages come in
Do you file that as predatory?
Do you have a different way of looking at that?
I mean, they're not...
Like, it's, um...
It's complicated
Like, there's a lot of really gross, misogynistic anti-woman behavior
That you encounter in that part of the world
Even if it's hidden from you
Even if they don't show it to you as a guest
In that particular case
I got the feeling that these were just lonely soldiers up at the front line
That's what I thought you might say
That it's sort of like...
It's like if you were a U.S.O. performer
And they were on a submarine or something
I mean, as you should always do in those situations
I kind of went off of her feelings
And at every given step was like, how do you feel about this?
Like, what do you want to do?
Well, you don't have to high-rope that
Yeah
When you post your pieces
If you're emailing them back to your source
Or to your, you know, wherever you're sending it to
Do you get, like, any...
What do you call it?
Like, what's the word, Davis?
Censorship
Are they going through your stuff and censorizing you?
No
But, you know, there's a couple of things I should point out
One is that I don't do, like, the daily...
Like, I don't work for the New York Times
I don't work for, you know, the BBC
I'm not, like, filing stories every day
And then having them, like, run up on the air
That's not the kind of work I do
As a general rule, I just come home with whatever
I come home with, write whatever I want to write with
And some of it gets published
Some of it they're not interested in
In this case, I'm just going to throw up
Nobody's going through embodlerizing and censoring your stuff
No, I spent, like, a weird morning in Mosul
During the fighting there, just watching, like,
U.S. airstrikes hit apartment blocks and stuff
And, like, nobody censored, tried to stop me
From talking about that
And are these considered, I mean, like...
But we're talking about places where
It's not even explicitly declared
Whether or not there's a war going on or not
It's just a mixing bowl of conflict
So are you wearing a vest that says press
And would that matter?
I did the first...
When I went to Ukraine, which was my first trip out
I wore a vest, just because I didn't know what to expect
And I was, like...
Meaning...
Or do you mean Kevlar?
Yeah, like, a Kevlar vest
But I'm also talking about this sort of, like,
Hey, I'm a journalist, kind of, like, insignia
In most of these areas, if you're, like,
A clearly American person walking around
Everyone kind of knows your press
Like, especially in, like, these parts of Syria
Like, the only Americans going through are either
U.N., foreign aid, and there's not that many
Of those people who are, like, westerners
Or you're just a journalist
What's the reaction?
They're pretty used to it
When you meet locals and they know that you're from the U.S.
Or that you're not from Syria
Like, what's their reaction to you?
Are they friendly, automatically?
Or wary of you?
Nine times out of ten people are friendly
The only places I got really negative reactions in Syria
Were when we were in Raqqa
Which was the former capital of the Islamic State
There were a lot of older men who you could tell
Had kind of bought into the status quo under ISIS
And you got a lot of staring daggers at them
Very mean looks at them
Like, we also went to Al-Hal
Which is the refugee camp
Where they're hosting most of the arrested ISIS brides
So, like, the women who had, like, left parts of the western world
And joined the Islamic State
And a lot of them, like, we had this one weird moment
Where we were walking through the camp
And we were just surrounded by these women
And they're in full Nikabs
Which is, like, the full black headdress
And it's like, as soon as you try to lock eyes with them
They flip down this little visor thing
So you can't even see their eyes
And, like, we'd been out with
We'd been talking to, like, guards at the camp
Who'd been showing us, like, knife wounds
And bite marks and stuff
Because, like, a lot of these women, like, some of them will make shibs
Or they'll get knives smuggled in
And they'll stab a guard
And then they'll run back into the crowd
And you can't tell who did it
So, like, we were just surrounded by this crowd of women
You can't see their eyes or anything
And, like, that was, like, definitely some navigative vibes there
But I also had a long conversation in, like, a trailer
With these two ISIS women
Who had willingly joined the Islamic State
From Jamaica and Barbados
And they spoke perfect English
And we're talking about, like, literally
One of the sentences I heard was
When we first came to the Islamic State, it was Airee
And it was, like...
Wow!
And, like, at one point
My colleague and I, Jake Hanrahan
Who's a British conflict journalist
It was Airee
Yeah, it was Airee
And we're, like...
We're having this pleasant conversation
You're very polite to us, but, like, tell the truth
If the walls came down right now, Jake asks
You'd have our heads cut off
And they're, like, yeah!
She's, like, okay, well, at least we're on the same page, yeah
Yeah, well, we in the states here
I mean, we do...
The way I met Wyatt Sinek was
Doing that Courtney Cox pilot that was
Ripping off Daily Show, so a million years ago
Like, when I was working for Dino as a writer
And we did this, like, remote piece
Where Wyatt went to talk to Terry Metzger
The head of the Aryan...
Former head of the Aryan nation
And, like...
Oh, Metzger, yeah!
It was, like, all this gag, you know?
It was, like, of course he...
You know, it's, like, the white nationalists
Back then, it was, like...
It was always, like, a puzzler of, like, really?
They wanted us to send a black guy
And a gay guy to talk to them about
Who they hate more and really...
It's, like, like...
Oh, yeah, it...
That's my segue into the fact that
What amazes me about you is
You go and do all this other stuff
So I'm pretty sure
Blackout drunks aside
That the last time you were on the show
I spent a great deal of my energy going, like
How do you have the...
Hutzpah, the gumption, the stuff to, like...
To go to these corners of the earth
Not to, like, maybe corners of the earth is a...
That's a Eurocentric slur
Kind of right in the middle
Yeah, they're, like, in the...
Yeah, like the fertile crescent of, yeah, everything
The kknave. of the earth
Yeah, that's actually really fair, yeah
It's undulating dance, summoning all of it
Okay, there I got it
We're, like, right in the middle of its four pack
If it's got, like, pretty good abs
Yeah, what was the tipping point for you
To just decide to go out and go into
Pretty, like, sketchy, dangerous parts of the world
To be a journalist
I mean, you know, it was this really...
It kind of came from a really narcissistic place
Of just growing up raised on Hollywood action movies
And not being willing to join the military
But, like, wanting to know what it was like
To see conflict and to even, like, having this desire
Like, I want to know what it's like to get shot at
And then going there and realizing, like, oh, that stuff
Is, like, 1% of what you do
And mostly what you do is meet, like, the nicest people
You've ever met
Because there's something about...
Not that war is good for you, which is a bad...
Would be a bad lesson to take from this
But that conflict and terrible circumstances
Tend to reveal the best in people more often
Than they reveal the worst
And that those stories don't get clicks
No, they sure don't
That fear and evil kind of propagate by
The fear that I feel when I think about
The Middle East as a hornet's nest
In a place I'd never go as part of the problem
That you're inoculating things somehow
You know, you're going deep in there
But the thing that blows my goddamn mind
Is that on the right over here, I'm, like,
Reading your very thoughtful stuff
Because it's like, look, I wouldn't have dismissed you
As an adrenaline junkie
However, I would have been able to at least
Find a place for you on my map of the cosmos
As, like, a guy who's, like,
Wants to be where the action is
And where the truth is and stuff
But you're...
You have this...
You are really into...
Investigating this domestic situation
That we've got going on
And that involves absolutely no romantic
Hurt, lockery, fun, like,
You pack your bags and duck your head
Because the rotors are buzzing and things
Like, it's all just mind-numbing, heart-aking
Investigation into the gears of
The fucking 8-chan and the 4-chan thing
It did get a bounty on my head
I'm sure it did
Yeah, yeah, yeah, from 4-chan, 15 bitcoins
I wouldn't be sub...
I probably faster than any work you've done
In the most dangerous places on Earth
How much... Are you a big history buff?
How much, like, knowledge
Do you have to go into that?
When you land and hit the ground in Syria
Do you have to know about the whole history of it?
I mean, in a much shittier,
Way less important version of what you're doing
I did comedy in Kosovo
And trying to learn about the Balkans
And what's gone on there
It's crazy
And there's no getting around how complicated all that is
And I read and I read and I read and I read and I read
And I still don't know what the fuck is going on there
Yeah, you know, it's...
I'm a big believer, like, when I report on white nationalism
I've read almost everything, like, pretty much everything
And you're for it, right?
Yeah, big fan, yeah, big fan
Once you do just the cursory amount of research
It sells itself
Go ahead
No, so, like, I do a lot of...
I've tried to get deep into the history on that
But when it comes to, like, I do as much reading as I can
But, like, really, you can't understand
The full depth of all of these conflicts
Yeah, 600 years of fucking conflict, yeah
So, like, what you do is you ask people there
What they think you need to know
And, like, you do that to enough people
That you feel like you've gotten a good base of, like, things
Like, what I actually need to understand
In order to understand this place
What they've told you when you do more research
And you try to present things with as much context as you can
But you also accept that, like, there's only certain stories
You can effectively report on about that part of the world
As someone from outside of it
Because, like, you don't speak the language
You don't have an in-depth knowledge of the history
Which is why the kind of stuff that I have been trying to report on
Like, what I focused on when I was in Syria
Is the stuff that's going against the grain of history
Which is very much, like, what everyone in Rojava will tell you
Escape from is, like, the grain of history
That has caused so much problem
Or so many problems for, like, the people in that region
Over such a long span of time
And has caused all these structural imbalances
Is there a generational thing that's happening
Where, like, there's a youthful kind of, like, a upsurge
Of, like, let's escape the past?
Yeah, that's a big part of it
And you meet a lot of older people there
Who, you know, like, the women I would talk to
Who would say, like, I don't think this guy really means it
I don't think that guy really means it
And you would kind of have to parse it with the older guys
Which ones believed in sort of the feminist revolution
Aspect of what was going on and which ones didn't
And so a lot of my conversations were trying to, like, figure out
Like, how the old guys felt about it
And then at one point we wind up in this office
With a bunch of Asaish, which are, like, the local military police
And it's a mix, everyone in there is in their early 20s
And it's a mix of young women, some of whom are wearing
Headdress, headscarfs, and some of whom are wearing
Are just, like, bareheaded
And, like, men, and a lot of them have tattoos
And they're all, like I said, in their early 20s
And I start asking them this
Like, how do you feel about men and women working together
How do you feel about this new system
And they all start really awkwardly giggling
To the point where it was obvious that it was like
If I'd walked into a mixed group of, like, men and women
Working together in, like, Orange County
And been like, how do you guys feel about women and men
Working next to each other
And they would all be like, what the fuck are you talking about, dude
Really?
And that was the thing, like, the people that I got to know well
And talking about, they were like, we just have to keep
The old people who don't really believe
Shamed into falling in line long enough for them to die off
And the young people to grow up living this way
Really? Wow.
So how big is that?
That can be a dangerous methodology
Yeah, can we do a Logan's Run, so to say
It turns out some of them can whip that fire whip
Right around Gandalf's ankle
Right at the last minute and get a whole new football
This women-based militia and, like, kind of
Yeah, you can see him if you pull a picture number seven
I think was that
Oh, we got pictures
Oh, yeah, there's pictures
I love this podcast
But yeah, what were you asking?
Oh, yeah, go like, oh, shit
Yeah
So, like, how prominent are they
And how many, like, what's, like, per capita
Like, how many of them are involved and what's going on?
There are a pretty substantial number of the forces
Like, in the field
It's kind of hard to get numbers
But you can get a picture for it just by looking at military checkpoints
Because it's a mix of men and women working the checkpoints
And doing, like, the job of garrison duty
And from that, I'd guess somewhere around a quarter to a third
You can also get an idea by one of the things
So about 11,000, mostly Kurdish
But also Arabic fighters and also foreign fighters
Died fighting ISIS
And they call them the Shaheeds, which means martyr
And their pictures are all over the place
Pictures of different martyrs are all over the place
And quite a few of them are young women
There's a lot of women who are 16, 17 years old
Are there women in, like, high military status?
Like, generals and...
So if you work in the Middle East in cover conflict
You will run into a situation very often
Where in order to get into a certain area
Or to embed with a military unit
You have to sit in a room with a bunch of elderly generals
And drink tea with them and maybe have lunch with them
Like, all right, you guys can get in the Humvee
And go on and do your thing
They just want to, like, sit with you
And get sort of that face time with you
And I had that meeting for the first time in Raqqa
Where the person who was in charge was not a man
And it was a woman in her 60s
Who was an older Kurdish fighter
Probably former PKK
Who was one of the co-presidents of security
For the city of Raqqa
And so she and this man were, like, running security
And she was, from the instant we stepped into the room
Clearly in control
And nothing started until she was ready to go
And nothing stopped until she was ready for it to stop
We've got her picture in here, too
But I want to go back to this at some point
This is your rap?
The rap you wanted to do?
Yeah, number three
Yeah
So that's her
She's the Queen Elizabeth, the Titan?
Yeah, and she...
And who's smiling Jack over here?
That's her partner
And when we asked him, what do you think about
All of this, like, women's revolution and feminism stuff
He was the guy who was like, oh, I'm totally about it
And she just, like, laughed and waved her hand at him
And it was, like, clearly this, like, dismissive gesture
Like, yeah, fuck you, we've been in arguments together
I know how you really fucking think, dude
I mean, that's really interesting
Like, of all places, you would think that that would not be the place
Where women were, like, controlled military
And, like, governmental control
Yeah, there's a story I want to tell really quickly
Just so I don't forget to do it
If you want to go back to picture seven
There's a woman in the middle of that picture
You see that young woman with the glasses?
She was 16 years old when Isis took over the city
That she lived in
And one of the first rules they instituted for women
Was that all women had to wear the niqab
Which is the full black, like, full body covering
And she went out one day with a white belt around it
And a member of the Hisba, which was Isis's religious police,
Saw her
And she was sentenced to 1,500 lashes for wearing a white belt
And the way she described it to us is
That's enough lashes that three different men had to deliver it
Because their arms gave out
And it took her four months to recover from the whipping
Enough that she was able to move around
And eventually escape through the lines
And reach the Kurdish-controlled chunks of northern Syria
Her there under the tree with a gun on her hand
Yeah, yeah, with the glasses
I can't believe that wouldn't kill you
It can
It does a lot of the time
But their arms gave out
The number of women died, yeah
So she reaches the Kurdish lines
And the first thing she sees is a soldier
A young female soldier of the YPJ holding an AK-47
And the way she explained it to us is
As soon as I saw that woman holding a gun
I was like, that's what I want to do
Wow
Yeah
I mean, there's this bitter sweetness to it
Because it's like
We in the West have been having this
For 200 years of like
And it's really hard to unbrade it
Because it's like
Guns or penises and men are violent
And that's part of the problem
And then, but we also like these stories of
Like, you know
Injustice becoming justice
And like equality taking the form of
Women holding these weapons of destruction
And it's like the mind just spirals
And while the mind is spiraling
One must then go
Why is your mind spiraling?
Because there are too many poles going on here
Like get rid of them and achieve stabilization
And if you have to do that by
It's like whatever means you have to do that
I mean, if a person took 120 lashes
Our hands are numb
We got different like
So they give you sort of their war name
So it always starts with Haval
Which is a word in Kermaji Kurdish
That means friend or you might translate it to comrade
It's sort of like calling everybody around you
Comrade would have been back in the early days
The Soviet Revolution
And her last name I have trouble pronouncing
But it's the Kurdish word for revenge
No shit
Yeah, so like comrade revenge was the name that she
So this is post her being whipped 1500 times
And she's sitting there and looking like she's
She was getting training at this
She was actually helping to train the younger women
In the unit
So this was part of an all Arab unit of the YPJ
So these young women were all getting trained to fight
And it was like
I talked to a number of them
We spent like a sizable chunk of a day there
And we actually got
I have a bunch of papers that I have to translate
That's like their coursework on feminism
Because it's a two month boot camp
And the first month is on historical training
And like feminist theory and like understanding
Like the relation of men and women throughout the ages
And like the birth of authoritarianism
Like that's part of the military training
Along with how to shoot in AK-47
Okay, well that's really interesting
I don't want to derail
But that sounds like a rabbit hole
That's what I came to talk about
Like how does their history of feminism
Hey Rob, scoot down over here
So that people can see all the photos here
Like in case it's blocking anybody
I mean, so if you're
I mean that just
Like what history of feminism are
They're getting a completely different one
Obviously there's not a
They don't do a slideshow
This is Susan and Anthony
Like they have a completely different history
Yeah, it's some
A lot of it does focus on like significant women
In both the history of the region
And the world who they like see
As sort of icons in this long struggle
A lot of it's the stuff that Ajalan
Wrote about his theories on
When human beings transitioned
From hunter-gatherers to agricultural societies
And when like the enslavement of women
On a systemic basis began
And it's like coming to understand all of that
God damn
Yeah, it's some surprising stuff
To encounter in the middle of the Syrian desert
Are they heralded and being like
Applauded in like their local areas
For being women in power
Or being a women militia
Some of their parents
They are disowned from
And will not be going back home
Because their family didn't want them coming
In joining and some of their parents
Some of them expressed that like my family
Was like yeah when I was a kid
This would have seemed impossible
But after ISIS they were just like fuck it
Why not
So it was a mix
Will they ever be heralded as heroes
Or are they just going to kind of be footnotes
Like in a weird crisis
There's a kind of real politic
That you encounter
Particularly working with Kurdish forces
In any part of the world
And I've been with them in Iraq
And in Syria
And they're both very different chunks
In both very different ideologies
But they both understand how optics work
Both like the Iraqi Kurdish movements
And the Syrian Kurdish movements
And so they understood from the beginning
That having female fighters up at the front line
Looked really good in terms of getting the US
To support you with airstrikes
Because like that just sells back home
A hell of a lot better than like
The way to a man's heart is a woman with a gun
Well
You can't argue with the effectiveness
One of the differences is that
For the Iraqi Kurds
That
Having actual women in the front line
Stopped being a thing
As soon as the immediate threat of ISIS
Overrunning their capital
Stopped being a thing
And in Syria
They're still all over the place
They're still running
Leading men into battle
Like you would
It was so comprehensive
That like
Because a part of you as a journalist
You're like is this just a put on for me
Or are they like trying to like
Play up a show or whatever
Right
And a certain amount of time
After like looking back behind you
And just seeing like
A young woman in a headscarf
Like going over maps with a guy
Like 40 feet behind you
Like where you're not filming
Where you're not looking at
And they're clearly trying to figure out
Where to position their guys and what not
You just accept that it's happening
And that it like isn't weird
For a lot of the people anymore
Now look
If you've got a bunch of photos
We can go through all of them
Or I can segue to domestic
Which is only going to make my stomach hurt
So I'm happy to go through photos of
I mean you know
Like if you've got a bunch of photos
Let's look at them
I would be happy to see more photos
Of these women
We do
The thing is
I'll just let me say this one thing
And then we don't have to talk about
Domestic again
Because we do
I'll talk about domestic
I know you want to
That's the thing that impresses me about you
Is that you're clearly passionate
About that shit
And have such an eye for it
But Google Rob Evans
And scroll past the kid stays in the picture
In the history of Paramount doing porn
And see Rob Evans' pieces
About 8 Chan and 4 Chan
And the stuff
And it's like don't
It's like look
It's not
It takes 10 minutes
And it fucking hurts
Like drinking Nyquil
But then
Why is drinking Nyquil hurt?
That puts you to sleep
That's pretty normal
Wheat grass
It's disgusting
But you feel a little better after you drink it
Like you're a little more armed
For something
And stuff
You talk about shit posting
Which I really didn't know the definition of
All kinds of stuff
But we have guests coming up
Who are delving into that area
And we can have you back anytime
And if you've got a bunch of fucking photos
From your trip to Syria
Let's go through them
And listen to you tell stories
Yeah
Like there's one little spiel
I'd like to go on
About the domestic side of things
That like I talk about this
I've been doing like I was on the BBC
And NPR
And like doing a bunch of shit
After the last shooting
Because they call me up every time
Someone from 8chan murders people
And there's something I never get to talk about
Or I talk about it
Sorry, interrupt
What is 8chan?
I don't know
Is that two times worse than 4chan?
If the internet's asshole
If the asshole of the internet
Had an asshole
That's 8chan
And it's actually called 8chan
It's called 8chan
Because child porn was banned
On 4chan
And Gamergate
We can't have this
Well, yeah, I think it was popular
It was because of Gamergate
But I think that's why it was invented
It's like we need a 4chan
To trade child porn
Yeah, it was a
Yes, that's the starting point
It's like
And it only got worse
Yeah
They took a real Nazi turn
After 2014
And it's stupid
And it's sad
But it's why like 80 people
Have died this year
But there's a really important provocative cover
I'm going to let you do your ranch in one second
Because I can already hear
From my wonderful audience
That I respect the hell out of them
If I only think about the stuff on the drive
Over here
I thought the same thought
Immediately when all this talk about
We get to pull the plug on 8chan
And all this stuff
And my first thought is like
Wait a minute, that can't possibly be the solution
I don't want anybody listening to this podcast
To think that like
That's why I say
Go Google Rob Evans
Read his shit
This guy as much as he's been in Syria
And Iraq has been in 4chan and 8chan
And just read the stuff
Because it's not forcing you to do anything
Just read his stuff
And start to like
Understand the climate
And the definitions of what is
When do you start to call something
An actual like fucking cell
And I just like
The fact that I have to gingerly say that
Is like a sign of the crazy ass times
But now do your thing
Yeah, I mean I um
So I started covering 8chan in 2014
Because I was a comedian at that point in time
And I worked for a website called crack.com
That did a comedy video about
Personifying different websites on the internet
As like kids in high school
And it personified 8chan as this creepy kid
Like hitting on another young woman
In like a really creepy and abusive way
And like that was the joke
Is that that's the kid 8chan would have been
In high school
And they found the video
And they got angry
And they didn't go after the director of the video
Who was a man
They went after the actress
And they started like sending dead animals to her house
Letters written blood to her house
Like this is like 2014
So I start like
I just start checking in on these guys
A couple of times a year
Just because I'm like what the fuck is happening here
And in 2016
The president retweets a meme that they create
You guys saw that picture of Hillary Clinton
With like the star of David behind her
That says most corrupt candidate ever
That was an 8chan meme
So I wrote a thing about them
For the comedy website that I wrote for
At that time
And then I just keep looking in
And then the Christchurch massacre happens
And because I've been working on extremism
And stuff during that time
I read the guy's manifesto
And I see that it was post on 8chan
And I like write a thing about it
Like while the bodies are still warm
And suddenly like
All these journalists from legacy media
Are being like
Can you explain the internet to us
And like that's why I'm in this position
But what I think is important for people to understand
That I tell to every journalist
From a big station that talks to me
That they never play
They never put it on the radio
They never put it on TV
This shit goes back
Further than the internet as we know it
In the early 1980s
There was a terrorist group called
The Order
Which was inspired by a book called
The Turner Diaries
Which is a fictional book
About a white race war
That is sparked by like
Terrorist cells carrying out like
Random acts of violence
It's a fantasy
It's a fantasy for white supremacists
Yeah
Who maybe don't call themselves fascists
Blowing up enough shit
And the terrorist group in the book is called
The Order
And the real terrorist group is called
And they're protagonists or antagonists
Oh they're the heroes
They're protagonists
Like most terrorist written fiction
It doesn't really have good structure
It's just like
Once upon a time
We blew up enough shit
That we got to
We got to be America
Which women we got to fuck
And it was great
And then we nuked the earalls
Yeah
So this real terrorist group
Calls The Order
The Order starts up
And they mostly rob banks
And armored cars
They only kill a couple of people
But they make off with about
Four million dollars in cash
Some of it goes to buy rocket launchers
And machine guns and shit
Oh yeah this I know
Okay
This part people know
What people don't know is that
Most of the weapons that the money bought
Got confiscated eventually
The army and shit tracked them down
The FBI figured that shit out
But a lot of the money went to buy
Apple II computers
And early networking equipment
Which connected KKK cells
And new neo-nazi cells
And like white supremacist readouts
And places like the area nations up in Idaho
On an early internet network
Called LibertyNet
Now this is in the mid 1980s
By the mid 1990s
There were researchers realizing
There's an organized neo-nazi presence
On like use net and shit
Like the early internet
Like on these fucking like
What were they even called
Not message boards
Like even fucking before that
News groups
Like all dot politics and shit
Like there's Nazis all over these places
And they start finding Nazi manifestos
Written about how to radicalize people
On the internet
And how if somebody confronts you
The first thing to say is
I'm not a Nazi
Use humor and jokes
And try to claim that you're just joking
If people call you on like
Your ironic fascism and stuff
And like if we just put this stuff
Out into the atmosphere often enough
This is how we can recruit people
And so what we've seen
What we're seeing with 8chan
And not just with 8chan
But with like this brother constellation
Of like neo-nazis and fascists
On the internet
Who were radicalizing
Larger and larger groups of people
And who sort of metastasized
In the 2017 Charlottesville March
Where you got hundreds of these people
In real life
Is the culmination of 30 years
Of really diligent work
And that's why I try to treat these people
And have tried to push the mainstream media
And when I speak to law enforcement
When I lecture at colleges
Try to talk to them about
You have to treat them as if they're like ISIS
Or Al Qaeda
And maybe they're not that organized
And they're certainly not a central figurehead
Of the group
But they function that way
And they've been doing so for decades
And it's time we acted like it
You have to at least ask yourself
In terms of group psychology
What if these people weren't white
Now the brick wall that I run into
Is like
Well how can you possibly punish a medium
Like how can
And that's what all of my friends also say too
The minute we hear this stuff
We just go like
How can pulling the plug on a fucking place
Where people get together
And say who wants to mass shoot
How can pulling the plug be the solution
And just reading a couple of your pieces
Like started to nudge me over
Because unlike me
Who's just simply a 46 year old dude
Waking up and going
Yeah but at the end of the day
And that's why I say to you guys
Because I don't presume anything about you guys
In these turbulent, turbulent times
And I think that's
From reading two of your pieces
That was one of the things I really respected
Is your acknowledgement of the psychological effect
Of just shit
Just too much information
And how there is like
That is like
Like if we had
If you hadn't been to Syria
That would be an hour long conversation
That you want to have
Is like how in the hell
What is the responsibility of the discerning
Humanitarian individual
When they're trying to figure out
What is the difference between shit posting
Trolling propaganda
And an outright like thing to bother attacking
What is anyone supposed to do
Because it's obvious what the quote unquote
Enemy wants to happen
Which is fatigue
Shock and awe
Yeah they want you offline
They want you to do what I have done
Buy a gun and get in your swimming pool
And I am proud
Well I'm not proud
But I am not afraid to shamefully admit
I've never seen you in the pool though with your gun
That's the next one man
Challenge accepted
First off this is off topic
But if you haven't gone pool shooting
Now Dan I come from Texas
And rolling down a moving body of water with a rifle
That's some good times
I'm not going to pretend it's not
I can't tell if you're kidding
I am not kidding
I'm pretty sure mythbusters prove
That bulls don't work underwater
Well no but he's talking about
Tube shooting
Which is something I've always done
Like lazy river tube
Tube shooting
Plus sea shooting right
See that like I'm not a big gun enthusiast
But I would go tube shooting
Who wouldn't
Poss I would not go tube shooting with you
No I want to be completely alone
Yeah well they say about you know
The old saying never be the smartest person in the room
Never be the guy in the tube shooting trip
That has the least experience with guns
And tubes
Or tubes
Yeah
To only go tube shooting with navy seals
Rob I took journalism school at USC
Like in the early 90s and I was
I think about like what it must be like now
To go into a journalism school today
Like because this is
When I went there it was pretty pre-internet
And certainly pre-
Napster
Like yeah
I was pre-napster for sure
There's less focus on Napster
That's heartbreaking
But like how do you approach journalism now
And like when you're writing a piece
And like you think of the market that's going to be delivered in
Like in a world of just fake bullshit
And like how do you approach print journalism today
That's a reason I'm a big fan of the site that I write for
It's called Bellingcat
And these are the people they were founded by
A guy who was a something awful forums goon
Named Elliot Higgins
And something awful is also the forum that birthed HN
Which is the forum that
Right
The forum that birthed 4chan
Now so Elliot's just like this nerd on the internet
And like when the Syrian civil war starts up
He starts getting interested
Just like looking at pictures of conflict
Through like Google images
And trying to piece stuff together
And then he gets interested in like the fighting in Ukraine
And there's been a number of stories that they've broken
But one of them is that after
I think it was MH17
The Malaysian air flight that was shot down over Ukraine
They just spent god knows how many hours
Combing over pictures of the wreckage
And pictures of Russian troop movements at the time
To identify which missile
Based on the serial numbers on the missile
Shot down the plane from like a Russian buck launcher
And then traced down like
What launcher that missile was put onto
And then traced its path from Russia into the Ukraine
To prove that it was the Russian back separatist in Ukraine
Who shot down the plane
And like that's the kind of journalism they do
And I don't do that
Because I'm not nearly that smart
But like that's I think a part of how you deal with
The problem of like
Well nobody believes in truth
It's like okay well you can put out this article
Where I'm not relying on trusting that you went here
And talked to these people
I can pull up all of these images
I can trace the serial numbers on this missile
I can like do all this myself
Because you've spelled out how you're going to do it
And that's hard to argue with
Like when we look at the internet
I'm using my eye statements here
When I look at the internet and I go
This is at least 80%
Nonsense
It's worse, poison
Yeah
It might do me right to recognize
That that's probably because I'm 80% poison
And that if I'm 20% decency
Or health
That what that means is that there might be
20% of the internet that is decent
That you shouldn't expect those averages to be higher
And you should expect yourself to have to
Dig a little harder
How would you teach, like you said
You give talks and you
Yeah
Like how would you
Like you're talking to a bunch of
18-year-old freshmen in college
That want to go into proper print journalism
No, I don't talk to those kids
When I lecture, I usually lecture to counter-terrorism students
And to like new law enforcement
Federal law enforcement officers
About dealing with particularly far-right terrorism
But in general with dealing with terrorist groups
That use the internet to recruit
I don't like
I think journalism is kind of broken
In the mainstream sense
The people that you're talking to
Might be our actual journalists
The people that actually go in there and make
Like on the ground reports
And say this is what happened and this is why
Well, but also, and here's one of the reasons
Why I think mainstream
And like most of the field is kind of screwed right now
Is that it has abandoned
For sort of perceptions of the way things ought to be
It has abandoned actually
Mattering
And that's important
In a world where somebody can just lie a thousand times
To overwhelm your one truth
It doesn't matter that you're telling the truth
What matters is finding a way to get the truth
To reach people
And sometimes that involves thinking
Not like a journalist, but like a guy
Who writes for television or whatever
How do you know when you write something
And you've gone and reported on something
And you disseminate that
How do you have any faith
That will even land as truth
Well, you have to be willing to write
A bunch of shit that nobody reads
Which I have and will continue to do
Until the day I die
You also have to have an amount of faith
In the fact that when people get scared
They'll pay attention to what makes sense
And the lies always make a kind of sense
But they're never a satisfying sense
When you really turn them around in your head
And that's what you have to hope on
And that's something I believe on faith
I believe entirely because of the evidence
Of my own eyes, because it's not always true
Do you have editors and publishers that you trust
That they'll appreciate what you're doing
And that they'll make sure that what you've written
Gets out?
Yeah, I've been really lucky to work
With good editors all my life
And I don't know how journalists work
With ones who aren't
My editor at Bellingcat
When I started getting death threats
And got that bounty put on me was like
He mentioned this
Bounty? Please go over it
But pay attention
After the Christchurch shooting
I was on a documentary for ABC Australia
Talking about 8chan and stuff
And they found it and they got angry at it
And they put a 15-bit coin bounty on my head
And it's probably a joke
Because it's 8chan
But that's the point
They could always say it's a joke
Until you get shot and they're like
That was my idea
So I reported it to the police
And the editor went to her contacts in the FBI
And tried to get something
Nothing ever gets done
But that's the way
There's also not much that you could do
One of the things I do know
But you were saying your editor at Bellingcat
Yeah, she did everything she could
To get people to take it
Even though there's nothing that will be done about it
Because she considers her job to protect her creatives
I shouldn't call you creatives
I should call you something else
The thing that made me almost break down
The assassination of Jamal Khashoggi
Was his editor
Karen Atia at the Washington Post
And her reaction to it
And you could tell she's one of those editors
Who would take a bullet for anybody
Writing for her
And you hope you work for somebody like that
It's crazy that
Now journalists
Almost seem like they're part of
The intelligence service
You're basically
Not spies
But you're certainly putting yourself out
In a real harm's way
By simply caring about
Reporting truth
Now you can get poisoned
Murdered
Decapitated in all sorts of horrible shit
You know, I think that's
Always been the case in journalism
What makes this more on this edge
Where we're actually dealing with live intelligence
Rather than reporting cold intelligence
Is the fact that nobody
Including the intelligence agencies
Understands the world right now
Which is like a good
Situation to work in if you're somebody
Who gets the internet 3%
More than the guys working at the FBI
Look, this guy's obviously referencing
The
The meme of this
And a 40 year old guy is like
There's a meme?
I had a time where I was trying to explain
The remove kebab meme
Which I'm not going to explain here
If you don't need it, it's just a racist meme
By the Christchurch shooter
But having to go through this manifesto
Line by line and explain
This in-joke that these nerds told on the internet
To each other
It's weird
When you're going against entropy
When you side, the thing
That drives fascism
Which is a modern invention
You can't have an ancient fascist country
Unless you change your definitions
Because you have the tenets of fascism
Include
Like absolute nihilism
And manipulation of the media
Takeover of it
That includes this idea of
You have to subvert the very idea of truth
Which I see a thousand articles a day
As much as I try to avoid the news
I just see Newsweek
Time, CNN
Washington Post
I see a different permutation
Of people coping with something that seems
As a ninth grade history student to me
To be the same headline over and over again
Boy, these guys really
Will stop at nothing to make everyone
Not understand that there's an objective truth
See, I think
Part of the problem is that
Fascists
Never tell the truth
But they are often the most authentic
Players in the media
Atmosphere and in the political space
This is something to bring it back to ISIS
Who I do think are, I think it's an Islamo-fascist movement
Just like we have crypto-fascists here
In the United States
This is your recruitment propaganda
And you compare it to the recruitment propaganda
Of the United States military
You watch a U.S. Marine Corps recruitment video
You're gonna see cool guys with guns, cool uniforms
You're gonna see cool tanks rolling everywhere
Nobody gets shot, nobody gets hurt
Nobody's bleeding
You watch ISIS propaganda
And they'll follow a single guy from his journey
Leaving Canada and going to the Islamic State
And picking up a rocket launcher and fighting
To him getting blown up and it zooming in
Lovingly on his torn apart corpse on the ground
To be
And people embrace it because it's authentic
Because we live in this culture where everything is
Like so plastic and formulated
And it was the same thing that was explained to me
I talked to this guy who's a pretty sleazy dude
Rick Wilson, he's a former Republican
Political strategist and during the 2016 election
I was talking to him about
Political ads and we were evaluating
Trump's first campaign ad with one of Hillary Clinton's
Most recent ads and he said
Everybody's making fun of Trump's campaign ad
Because it's so like juvenile and looks like some kid
Cooked it up on the internet
That's going to do a thousand times more for his campaign
Than anything she could spend $20 million on
Because that feels like something a kid cooked up
On his laptop because he cared
And it's the same thing with ISIS's stuff
It's the same thing fascists
Always have going for them
Is that they're lying about everything
But the emotional truth at the core of the movement
Speaks to something in people
And a politician who's just trying to get elected
Never can
And you don't want to be distant from that
But there's a
I want to
Inculcate myself
But also
Present the lighter side of that
Which is like there was somebody that reached out
To me through private messaging and said
That they were a mental health professional
And that they work with at risk kids
And by at risk I mean
Particularly the kids that are at risk of self harm
And
That
This person was writing to me to let me know
I put a quote from my show
On the door of their office
At this center
Where these kids that are not privileged
They've
Sunk down by virtue of wanting
To die to the lowest
Like
Drain gutter
And they're coming through him
And he liked the show
Rick and Morty
Not community
Which is very nihilistic
Like fuck it
I believe the quote was the thing that Morty says to his sister
Which is like nothing matters
Like nobody exists on purpose
Come watch TV
Which I did personally write
And I did design it
To appeal to the potential
Runaway in all of us
It is something that I wanted to hear
When I was 17 from
Especially
An imagine kid brother
And
He said he put it on his door
And that he was just reporting to me
That it was like making kids trust him
And it brought me to tears
I got to tell my therapist
I make this shit
I just follow my heart
Sometimes my heart is dark
And tortured and poisonous
And sometimes my heart is
Pollyanna and all that stuff
But what you're talking about is authenticity
The perceived authenticity of the message
Versus
Like when kids are attuned
To the horse shit
So when I was young
Fight club was this big
It was like it just spoke to me
It was like oh my god this movie gets it
Oh my god the corporate America and all that stuff
Like anything that's horse shit
Anything that goes through channels
On its way to touch you
No matter how it's touching you
It would be simpler to just reach out
And go yeah like maybe there is no god
Maybe life means nothing
It's like I'm listening to this person first
God forbid they tell me to do something
Terrible
Because I just don't have time
For this fucking Pringles can over here
Like that's like oh sorry Jeff
I didn't mean to personalize that
That's an inside joke kind of thing
But like that idea of like yeah
No this contains no sucrose
And this will eventually lead to your
It sort of reminds me in high school
The kind of battle that my teachers would tell me
Of like at least the way they characterized it
Like during the cold war
When you're going to third world countries
And you're pitching them democracy versus communism
And you're basically saying
If you go with us
Your grandkids are gonna maybe
Have a lot of bread
Like they can buy it at a supermarket
If you go with them
Everyone's gonna eat a lot more tomorrow
And
That conversation probably that conflict
But it's like the paradigm
It cuts to that
Which is like
Authenticity
Fidelity of messaging
Hey, talking to you
And I'm talking to you fucking straight
Have you ever felt like killing yourself?
Yes
And then the other person is going like
Hey, talking to you
Didn't mean to scare you
Everything's fine
No, of course, Uncle Henry
Okay, good night
I'm gonna go fuck your Aunt Irene
And then
Drop dead Freds over here
I was like I'm gonna sneak out my window
And they're authentic
It is
I'm so glad you brought that up
Because it also is like
It's this shit posting thing where it's like
People flooding a squirting ink
There where they go like
Here's my manifesto
You take that
Shit posting is like sort of the tactic
And it's not like fascist or inherently
Right-wing or left-wing or negative or anything
It's just a thing that you can do to sort of flood
A discussion or a conversation online
With nonsense, usually a bunch of like meaningless
Memes or like stuff like that
In order to kind of distract any sort of conversation
Usually not just nonsense but stuff that's like
Deliverately kind of emotionally provocative
In order to kind of derail productive conversation
It's kind of an inverted dog whistle
And it's the example that I brought up
In the case of terrorism was how like the 8chan
Shooter had a bunch of
References to internet memes and stuff
In his manifesto that like had nothing
To do with anything and also would bring up
People like Candace Owens who he wasn't a fan of
But he knew that if he dropped her name in the manifesto
It would start like a right-wing, left-wing
Fight and he could like sort of get people
Talking about that as like while
They were also grouping the strategy
Like Charles Manson told his people
Right, right, you know white people
Hate black people on the walls after you stabbed someone
Yeah, it's not a totally new tactic
It's just this is the term the internet
Yeah, you just like sort of you're the Grinch
You're Oscar, you're a fan of
Entropy
Entropy is going to get you to where you want to be faster
Because order is not getting you anywhere
Alright anyways
Also you have a new
Children's book coming out
It's called Good Night Moon
Sorry you're broken into nine fractional pieces
I was gonna go oh the places you won't go
Because the Nazis have bombed the trains
Oh the places you refuse to go
Yeah
Do you have kids by the way
Good god no
So this is a job that yeah that would make sense
Oh no I don't have kids because all the drugs
Can I ask you a weird question
If you did have kids
How would you deal with that question
Because people would like load
I'm like
If you had kids
Would you stop
No
I don't know I'm not a parent
So like my advice on this is almost meaningless
My opinion as a former child
Is that
A retired child
Yeah as a retired child
Retired
Aren't we all
I love that
I think you should let kids
Be interested in and read about
And study about anything
They want I don't think you should necessarily let them
Watch anything they want
That was the rule my parents had for me
That like I'd have a lot of disagreements with my parents
But they were like we're gonna watch what you watch on tv
But any book is fine
Because at least he's fucking reading
And like I don't know if that works in the modern era
Because that can mean like the kid winds up on fucking 8 chance
So like I don't know
Are we supposed to censor
No you know I think
Censorship of that kind never works
Which is not to say that like taking a site like 8chan
Off the internet the way that it has
Currently been taken off is bad because I don't
Think that censorship I think that's being like
Hey company do you want your name associated
With a site that's killed 80 people and they go like
Yeah I really don't
But all that shit still you can post that
Like in a post net neutrality world let them have
Lower bandwidth
Yeah I think what
Anything that really works in the long run
When it comes to like fighting
Authoritarianism and fascism through raising
Better people is giving them
A solid grounding both on like a
One-to-one level in sort of the example
You said as a human being of how they should treat
People by how you treat people
And number two give them a thorough grounding
In history which they won't get
From school because like school history educations
Are garbage so don't just tell them about
World War II and the Revolutionary War
Talk to them about Bhopal India
And the East India Trading Company
Sounds like vegetables
History vegetables
No wonder I was dying
I'm not even willing to do this
And I'm the coolest dad that could ever live
Are you a dad now Dan?
No I'm like you man
I still got to fight to fight
No I'm just lazy and I don't want to talk
About Bhopal
That's kind of the problem
So I'm a hero for opting out of
Reproduction
That's an option
That's my Syria
Singleness
Opting out is a
Fine way to go
I don't know
I know like
What I will say you were saying earlier
Like what can be done
To like fight this and how do we actually fight it
And like the answer is that
Nobody
If you want to have a world where Nazis
Don't regularly come back
Into power and kill a shitload of people
And then they have to be fought
And then they get like beaten down
For a little while and then 80 years later
They come back again if we don't want to have that world
And we also want to live in a relatively free
And open society
Nobody gets to be just
A comedy writer
Which I was for a while
Nobody gets to be just a whatever you do
Nobody gets to be just a teacher or a hairdresser
Or a construction worker
But it also has to be
Involved in local politics
Everybody has to be an anti-fascist
Everybody has to put some responsibility
On themselves
To keep shit from getting fucked up
Otherwise nobody gets fucked up again
We got to eat those history vegetables
Well we got to eat those ideological vegetables
Yeah
You know one of the
Problems we have right now in our society
You look at some of the worst people
Who are currently on sort of the site of the right
Resistance right now
And the people often who aren't
Advocating it directly themselves
But who are saying things like that
600 million Muslims are radicalized terrorists
And then a guy who reads them a bunch
Goes and shoots up a mosque in Quebec City
That particular guy whose name
I won't mention here
Has a screenplay that he just couldn't
Get sold in Hollywood
And Steve Bannon had some screenplays
That he just couldn't get sold
And a lot of these guys who are currently
Working outrage against immigrants and Muslims
Have screenplays that they just couldn't sell
Have TV pitches they couldn't sell
They're just failed screenwriters?
And failed stand-up comedians
A lot of them are failed stand-up comedians
You're a success
You're on a stage right now
Thank you
Proud boys founder Gavin McGinnis
Couldn't quite hack it as a stand-up comedian
And Dave Rubin's the same case
So they get into politics
Because it's easier
To be good at this stuff
Some of them succeed
And the ones who are decent people and don't
Go find something else to do with their time
But the ones who don't succeed and are shitty
I can just be racist
And then I can make a shitload of money
Being racist and using the same tactics
I learned to rile up a crowd
And get them to hate immigrants
And they're focusing on politics
Because it's the only place that they can
Make a living because they're not quite
Good enough to make us laugh
Yeah
It's the evil version of Christian rock
I know four chords
And I love Christ
A little
I can either love learning chords
So much that I learned six chords
I could double down on my love of Christ
If I hear any
Negative talk about Striper
I'm leaving the stage right now
Nobody's talking bad about Striper
It's the same thing
I love Christ
The Christ
Two chords
Smoke on the water
You know if
If this Rick and Morty thing doesn't pan out
It should have been walking on water
Wait, no notes
That's not...
What do you mean it should be walk on the water
I'm saying that song was smoke on the water's
Water's chords
So I was supposed to say walk on the water
If you got to the chorus, yeah
Walk on the water
Yes, I could have extended the bit
And see Dan, if you become a grifter
You never have to take notes again
I could busk
Well, you're not going to keep your lifestyle
With that
Also, I can't play those three chords
I don't
I don't even know what chord means
Out of curiosity
What do you think a chord is
I'm asking that
Ironically, like...
It's a group of notes that
Harmonize together
I don't know, they work together
Yeah
And there's several different kinds of chords
What do you think the difference between a major
And a minor chord is
Through the lens of a logic
Pro user, the difference is that
The middle
Line is either
Closer to the bottom line
Or closer to the top line
You're flattening the third
You're flattening one note
You're by half step
Come at me, bitch
What do you think a sus chord is
I think it's a sustained chord
Generally
Sustaining what
Sustaining the chromatology
I don't know, man
Fuck you
What do you think the
Overtone series is
It was the
Follow-up to Downton Abbey
It was a
Short-lived spin-off
The Overtones
They were always that family that was like
Well, I think the servants took the wine
Get out of here, Maud
And then they became the Overtones
Are you more about the diatonic or the chromatic
You know, I
I'll quote Donald Trump being quizzed
About the Bible and go, I think both
Equally
Remember that clip from him in the Camp J trailer
They were like, what, New Testament, Old Testament
He's like
Both
So, so close to a hero
I honestly
That's like Bob Roberts shit
Like it's like
Tanner-88, like fucking metahumor
You know
Both, can I be president now
Because if I can, you're the idiot
You proved that right
Anyways
You playing the music, Rob?
No, never
Have you ever tried?
Yeah, I played the tuba in high school
The tuba?
Are you talking tuba or sousaphone?
No, tuba
That was, sousaphone were for people who played the tuba and wanted to
Tubas were for people who couldn't play anything
But had to get a music credit
Right
Were you in a marching band?
Sitting band
Jeff, you got an email
Because he has a 15 Bitcoin
Price on his head
You stopped me
Did you ever talk about that at all?
You got an email
Blackmailing you for 5 Bitcoin
Oh, you did?
Did you pay it?
What did you do?
Jeff texted me, hey can you loan me 5 Bitcoin?
I got an email today
I happen to know
Glenn Maxwell
Who is really in deep shit right now
She's in the headlines now
I haven't seen her in many years
But she
Is a pal
And she is probably
The procurus for Jeffrey Epstein's
Sexual Trafficking
Empire
And I met her at a charity event
And I believe Jeffrey Epstein was there too
Is for Michael J. Fox's
Parkinson's disease thing
And we brought her on stage
And I sang a song to her
And everything she said was a lie
Because she couldn't talk about what she did
Then we went out and hung out
And we remained friends
And as such, you're probably in her phone book
Yes
Greg Poops told me
Get her number off of your phone
And you did
Every phone text that we have
Is just her saying happy birthday
And she said
Jeff, I'm at the Soho house
Do you want to come join me for lunch?
And we'll get there and there's Hugh Laurie
Sitting over there and we talk
About some of the questions
Because she's
She's a very fascinating lady
I didn't realize that she was
Possibly
But you, because
Applaud if you've received a spam
Saying
I'll read it
I don't think this is like a Nigerian
Like thing
We all get lots of spam
And lots of emails saying that your social security number
Has been compromised and whatever
Confidentiality management
Hello
Comma
And also it's signed by nobody
This whole thing sounds pretty fugazy
It has come to my attention
My
Dave
It has come to this author's attention
That you may be at risk
After a potential leak
Regarding Jeffrey Epstein
The potential leak being
Her phone
Privacy and I believe
I love this writing so bad
I believe privacy and confidentiality
Are very important in the world we live in
And I am willing to offer my services
To help
My services in helping
Keep your confidentiality
And privacy out of the public eye
I have resources
And friends at all
The top social media sites
News outlets and government
And governments
All the top governments
You are deep in the dark web now
We're talking top five governments here
By the way
This is Kevin Day
I just wrote this
I've worked
With
I've
Apostrophe
Work with them in the past
Helping others keep their privacy
In return I require
A one time payment of five bitcoin
Sent
To
A link
Once payment has been received
By my team
We'll get started
Scrub on the internet to keep the privacy
We'll make sure
So
No one else got that
Email
Is that because they know
That Glenn Maxwell's phone number
I truly believe
No one else is getting that email
And
But
I've humble bragged
That I was collateral damage of
FAP gate or whatever the fuck it was
Because of various people
Like
It's not
It's truly I think what that
Indicates you have actual knowledge
We could be like the young Turks
Or some kind of web based news
Agency like we have a scoop here
Bellingcat
Her phone's been hacked
To me that's what it suggests
What really freaks me out about that
Email coming in today is that I almost posted
She sent me
You almost sent him five bitcoin
Because you don't really understand what it's worth
But you were an early adopter and I keep telling you
You're a trillionaire
I think it was my 30th birthday at
And she was my date
We threw a prom themed
Based
And she came as my date
I picked her up at the peninsula hotel
And she said I've never been to a prom
And so I went there and I got her corsage
And she said I've never done this
I've only seen this in movies
And so I pick her up and we go to the thing
And
We took a photo together and then she sent me
A photo
Frame in a sterling silver
Like you know kind of 8x10 size frame
And I have that
And right before I saw that
Clearly spammy
Bullshit
I almost posted that photo
And said like this isn't going to age well
Yeah
You should get rid of that photo
Every time I
On my computer
I have the Guardian and I have Reuters
That comes up right off the bat
And it's all day pictures
Of
Galen
Standing next to Jeffrey Epstein
Like I knew her
And I have a photo where I look like
I'm the young Jeffrey Epstein
In that photo
Rob Evans I see your knees twitching
You're a conflict journalist
Do you have a take on this the Epstein
Yeah the Epstein thing
I think you should get rid of that picture man
That's not going to be good in about 3 months
I want to take on his situation
But I have a fucking take on the Epstein thing
I'm sure everyone does
60-40 I think 60%
Of themselves
Okay so here's my apparently
Controversial take which is like
A suicide that
Unwatched is murder
Well
You could make a case that almost every
Suicide in the US prison system
And there's a huge number of them is murder
Wait but
Do you know statistics about
Prisoners who are of such
Strategic
Significance that
How often do they fail?
This is arguably the most important arrestee
in the history of criminal justice.
I don't know how to exaggerate it.
Well, here's what I'll say.
His suicide watch failing is murder.
He wasn't on Suicide Watch.
He wasn't on Suicide Watch?
No, I'm taking it off.
Maybe that was part of the plot.
Maybe they took him off.
It's the last time, I'll say this,
the last time there was a prisoner
who was like this high profile was Lee Harvey Oswald,
and they didn't do a great job there.
Like, it wasn't a bang up protection gig.
His was on camera.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, well, here's a thing.
Here's a funny little question to raise about Suicide Watch.
Yeah, my neighbor's doorbell records my dog taking a shit.
What's with these stories that come out
from federal penitentiaries of the most notorious
potential witnesses?
I was like, well, we'll tell you what happened later.
Like, wait, you can't put a little bubblegum size camera.
The fact that he either committed suicide or was,
it was the day that Ghislaine, all of her,
like this tranche of documents came out about him
and her involvement.
And that's the day that he kills himself.
That's either him going, oh, fuck it.
I don't want to get involved in this.
Steve Levy just sent me this link.
It's in the New York Times where the staffer
on guard duty before it happened.
It was like, I was the guard on duty.
When my shift ended, a new guard came.
I'd never seen him before.
I said, what's your name?
And he goes, Steve.
And I said, Steve what?
And he looks around for a second, then said, JV.
My name is Steve Jail.
I was tired in that same legit.
Steve Jail?
That's the person who would have been
on guard duty when he died.
Steve Jail.
Holy shit.
This is some links from the New York Times.
What the fuck?
Holy shit.
Is that really from the New York Times?
It says that Steve, do you want to come out and confirm this?
At least hire somebody who went through UCB
to come up with a better name.
He didn't get that job by taking improv glasses.
That's what it says.
That job description says, do you own piano wires?
I'm Steve Mafia.
Yeah.
I'm Steve Murderer.
I'm Steve Prison.
And I'm Steve Assassin.
I want to interject and say, I don't want to make light
of a fucking murder, because if that's what it is,
I also don't want to make light of a suicide
if that's what it is.
But it's so high profile, and there's
questions of rule of law here.
I just don't understand.
When you arrest a guy who has a safe
with a bunch of diamonds and a passport that's fake
and has an alternate identity in Saudi Arabia,
and everyone agrees, I imagine being this guy in a box
and going like, fuck, man, I never
thought in a million years that Trump would be president.
Because I think he thought he had all his bases covered
and was like, if it ever goes wrong with the Democrats,
I got every Republican in the world on my side.
And then he never foresaw the one thing that would fuck him
completely, which is the Republican Party being
hijacked by so much reality TV celebrity
that he's like, ha, I'm in this cell.
I've done it before.
I'll do it again.
I have literally everybody on my, oh, shit, everybody?
There's not a single person in this world
that's going to stop me from being murdered now.
I don't know, man.
Like, he was also pretty deep with Bill Clinton.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
And I think if you boil it down to.
So was Glenn.
Glenn was like a very type of Clinton.
I'm saying he was deep with Clinton and Trump,
and he didn't think Trump would become.
He's like, hey, as long as I just keep this Rolodex up.
I think you're making not the same mistake he made.
But in terms of where you're looking here as to his mistake,
I think you're making the same mistake he made,
which is that he looked at the top.
That's very flattering.
What he did not pay attention to were the people at the bottom.
And what brought him down was not Trump becoming president.
What brought him down was a mix of two police detectives
who didn't care that it was the end of their career
to follow this case and a really, really dogged journalist
at a local paper in Florida who stayed on the case
like a fucking pit bull and wouldn't let it go.
So you've read about this.
Yeah, that's why fucking Epstein is dead right now.
And the story, and this is one of the things
that I think is so fucked up about QAnon,
is when people imagine the pedophile conspiracy
that they think is at the center of world government,
they imagine five-year-old kids being
sacrificed by Satanists in the basement of a pizza place
and the actual conspiracy that will
have a huge amount of documentation.
What actually went on is that a bunch of rich, powerful people
around the world wanted to fuck high school girls.
That's the whole conspiracy.
They weren't six.
They weren't 10.
They were usually 15 to 17 years old.
That's what Jeffrey Epstein provided.
That's what all these billionaires and millionaires
and presidents and senators and members of the royal family
wanted as teenagers.
Wondering like right before.
Weird flex, but OK.
Right before, the day before Jeffrey Epstein kills himself,
asking friends of mine that we all met Glenn
and we all hung out with her.
And she's quite fascinating.
And she's a very interesting woman and multilingual
and just awesome.
Wait, was she totally involved with this?
And I think all this paperwork came out,
all these documents came out that would really
have affected Jeffrey Epstein and Trump, Bill Clinton,
the Sultan of Brunei, Prince Henry, all this shit.
And then he's dead.
And the coup.
So Rob Evans, do you think Occam's razor says suicide?
This is one of those situations.
I think Occam's razor applies to things
that you have some precedent for.
I'm not aware of a situation in which a guy who
had a sitting president, a former president,
the Sultan of Brunei, a member of the royal family,
several sitting senators, most of the fucking granite.
And a guy named Gary Jail checking in to make sure
he doesn't kill himself.
So like, is it possible?
Steve Jail.
Get his name right.
Sorry, what are you saying?
Is it possible he was murdered?
Fuck it, of course.
He pissed out like a lot of people
had a vested interest in him dying.
So yeah, there's a real good chance he was murdered.
Is it also possible that a guy who had only ever lived
like as the richest, one of the richest people in the world
and who was used to having every whim catered to,
was broken by a few weeks of prison
and just decided to end it because he couldn't take it?
Sure.
Well, but he, I mean, he did it before.
He made it before.
Yeah.
Yeah, but that was a real fucking different story.
Well, I mean, it was a different story, especially
now that it turned out this way.
He was looking at like basically a life sentence.
My thing of us about rule of law, because if you,
now we're all focused on this autopsy,
and I'm like, who cares if the autopsy says it?
Yeah, big FD.
Like, remember, you could go into this guy's cell,
and I'm sorry, I must be frustrating you
because I'm like, oh, imagine the fucking,
I'm like the liberal QAnon.
But I'm like, if you wanted to kill this detainee,
like it is as easy as literally like sliding open
a thing on his cell and going like, my name is Steve Jail.
I am never going to come into that cell.
Like, you know what to do.
Right, that's the thing.
It's like when a person is in that dire straits,
actively not keeping them from killing themselves
is murder, regardless of conspiracy.
What I think you might be dancing around is that.
Is that there was a failure to protect one of the most
powerful pawns in the history of chess.
That's not the story.
The story is that if you want someone dead
and you want them dead by their own hand,
the easiest way to guarantee that is make them
be a normal prisoner in a US maximum security prison.
Because that'll pretty much do the fucking job for you.
But he was in a New York prison.
It was a New York federal detention facility.
But he was like alone in a cell.
Right, alone.
He didn't have a cellmate.
You're almost describing the threat
of being thrown into general pop.
I get that.
What I'm also describing is being isolated.
If I apply what I would assume my Occam's razor is to that,
is that what you said is that he said, fuck it.
I've been in jail since early July.
And I'm looking at being in jail for the rest of my life.
And he just said, the first moment, I'm alone.
And it's our job to keep these people alive.
I'm outraged about Jeffrey Dahmer dying in prison.
Like, there is something.
We have this attitude about bad people in our society
where we're just like, lock them away.
And I hope they get raped to death.
And I hope they die.
I hope they kill themselves.
Yeah, Zach, you've got to be, I want to hear MC Steve Jail.
No, stop it.
Steve Jail.
Don't do it even as a joke.
Get them away.
This is what I want to hear what you have to say about it.
Can I bring this around seamlessly to something
that ties it back to the original topic
and is also uplifting?
Oh, yeah.
So I'm in fucking Syria.
And I'm talking to these guys.
I know uplifting when I hear it.
So I'm talking to these guys who have been, all of these people,
men and women, who have just been dealing
with this brutal war against ISIS.
And the last survivors of the caliphate,
they have in a prison, well, it's part prison camp,
part refugee camp.
There's 71,000 people.
Not all of them are ISIS survivors, but a lot of them
are.
And they've got them locked in this camp.
And they're trying to figure out, what do we do with them?
And one of the first things that happens
is they start trying to send a lot of these people back
to Iraq, because a lot of them are Iraqi and origin,
or that was their port of entry.
And as soon as they send them back,
they do it with a bunch of French fighters.
And France says, we're not going to take these people.
Fuck them.
They're not French anymore.
And Iraq hangs them the same day.
That's just what they do in Iraq.
So far, not so uplifting.
Not uplifting yet.
The Rojavan Constitution says, the death penalty is illegal.
You cannot kill a prisoner under any circumstances.
It's not OK.
So they stopped sending prisoners over to Iraq,
who are ISIS fighters.
And so I'm talking to these people.
I'm trying to understand, because me and my partner Jake,
we both had reported from the fighting against ISIS.
And in my case, at least, I've been shot at by these people.
I've also spent hours and hours and hours talking to people
who've been tortured and beaten from them,
had family members killed.
And I'm sitting and I start by talking to one
of the women who's planning out their criminal justice system
and trying to build this thing from the ground up
to be more equitable than the one in Syria, which is not
exactly a super hard story.
But they're trying to do a better job.
And she's like, no, revenge is a sign of weakness.
And revenge is also something that
has been endemic in this part of the world,
in particular, for centuries.
And it's part of why we have so much violence,
is one member of this family kills another,
and they kill a member of their family.
What we have to do is rehabilitation.
And so at first, I'm talking to this lady, who's
in like, we're in a nice office room
while she's dealing with ISIS prisoners and stuff.
And I'm like, well, you're used to talking with the press.
There's a good chance you're putting on a show for me.
So we get down to the ground level
to this actual prison camp, where
they're keeping all these ISIS detainees.
And we start talking to their guards,
to these people who have.
Like, I talked to this one woman who
was telling me a story about how the day before she'd
been with this ISIS bride and her kids.
And the bride had knocked her down.
And her kid had, one of her kids had bitten her on the arm.
And she showed me the bite mark, where
this kid had ripped through the skin of her arm with his teeth.
And the other kid had gone off to try to get a gas can
to pour gasoline on her before her other comrades had gotten
them off.
And I'm like, what do you want to be done to these people?
And she's like, the only thing we can do
is try to rehabilitate them, is try to treat them well,
and take care of them, and eventually hope
that it gets through to some of them,
and particularly get through to their kids.
Because that's all you can do, is try to rehabilitate people
and be better than the people before.
Because if we just start killing them,
because we don't think they can be fixed,
then we're exactly the same as the Dashi's, as ISIS.
And then I start talking to the other guards, these young men
with AK-47s, about what do you think should be done.
And they all have the same, like, we
have to try to fix these people.
We have to try to help them.
Because otherwise, this is fucked.
Otherwise, this whole region is fucked.
If we can't get past all this violence, everything is fucked.
And for a little bit of perspective,
when I'd been in Mosul at the end of the fighting,
I'd been talking to people who had fled the city
during the fighting against ISIS.
And I would ask people, what do you
plan to do when you get back?
And almost everyone's answer was, well,
this neighbor of mine went with ISIS.
And he informed on me.
And that's why I had to leave town,
or why my car got taken away, or why I wound up in prison.
So I'm going to tell on him to the Iraqi authorities and stuff.
And it was like this cycle of violence being perpetuated.
And all the Kurds we talked to, and the Arabs we talked to
at this camp who were part of this thing going on in Rojava,
were like, you can't fucking do that anymore.
It has to stop somewhere.
So we're going to try to stop it.
And that, to me, was the most uplifting thing
that I saw there.
And we spent some time with this group of older women who
were part of the Neighborhood Council, who
were doing kind of what cops do in the United States,
like the civil side of law enforcement.
So they were the elected representatives
of this neighborhood.
And they would go around, and one of the things they did
is when there was a murder, obviously you solve the murder.
You try to solve the murder, and you try to get the murderer
in jail.
And it's usually pretty obvious who's done it.
But you also have to deal with the fact
that there's two families that now hate each other.
And so you have counseling sessions
between the two families, where you
try to figure out what the family of the murderer
can give the murdered in order to try to set things to right.
And sometimes it's months of dealing with these conversations.
And at the end of it, they throw a big feast
between both of the families and everyone else in the area,
so that everybody sees this beef getting squashed,
so that there's public shame on the side of whoever it is.
If another family starts up the vendetta again,
then everyone knows they're the ones breaking the peace
this time.
And this was at the undergirding of everything
that they've done.
And so I'm talking to these old ladies
about the fact these women who had lived 50, 60 years
under the Syrian regime, not able to hold a job,
not able to have any role in governance,
and who are now acting as like their own local government
for their neighborhoods.
And I asked them, could you ever go back to the way things
were before?
And they were like, oh no, they'd have to fucking kill us.
And later that night, my fixer, Habat,
takes us to the graveyard at the end of the day.
And you can see the graveyard on picture 5.
And I want to show that because it's kind of noteworthy.
So these are the way they do graves in that part of the world.
Every single grave you can see is a garden.
So they plant flowers in all of the graves
so that every grave is a sprout of life.
And as we're walking through this graveyard, which
is all soldiers in this who died fighting the Islamic State,
we're walking and we're talking.
And my fixer, Habat, is explaining to us
how this justice system works and the important she believes
should be placed on rehabilitation
and how you can't just try to hurt people.
You can't just kill these people even though they kill
your families.
Like if you capture a nice guy.
You have to try to keep him alive and rehabilitate him.
And right after explaining this, we're
walking through this graveyard.
And she stops at a grave and kneels down and kisses it
and says, this was my brother.
He died fighting ISIS at the age of 17 in 2014.
So like that to me was the thing that was like,
hit me like a fucking bullet.
That somebody can have an experience like that, which
should be a generator of so much hate.
And can in the proper environment
and with the proper amount of hope and with, you know,
an acceptance of the realities of the situation,
take from that that things can still be better.
Yeah, and then literally grow a flower.
Thank you all.
Wait, give it up for Rob, everybody.
Jeff, wait.
Sorry?
Levy just texted me again.
Steve Jail is fake.
It's a hoax.
Steve Jail.
Ah, Steve Jail.
Cliff Hanger, thank you all for giving up for Rob Evans,
everybody, Rob.
Rob Evans.
We'll see you next week.
Thanks for coming.
Spencer Crittenden.
Thanks, guys.
I'm Jeff Davis.
Your mayor is Dan Harmon.
One more time for Rob Evans.
That's a beautiful thing to find uplifting things
in a horrible, horrible world.
You know what, tonight, drive slow and don't take chances.
Zach, you got beat?
He's playing one.
There we are.
Give it up for Zac McKeever up there.
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show.